---
title: "Privacy Policy & Cookies"
date: "2015-10-15T00:00:00+02:00"
---

Camunda services GmbH (hereinafter referred to as "camunda") is a German provider of services and software in the field of business process management (BPM). Under www.camunda.com, www.camunda.org, www.network.camunda.org and www.bpm-guide.de (inclusive of many sub-pages) camunda operates a site on which the company and its offerings are presented and users of camunda products can exchange in forums (hereinafter referred to as "sites").

camunda would like to use this privacy policy to explain to you, what information is needed when using the sites of camunda, and how this information is being used when you surf on camunda’s websites.

camunda takes the protection of personal data of its users very seriously and complies with applicable data protection regulations. camunda collects, processes and uses your personal data only if you have given your consent to the processing of your data, or if the law allows the data processing. This Privacy Policy applies to all services that are offered in connection with the sites. If you have questions or comments about this Privacy Statement, please contact us via info@camunda.com. You can also contact us by mail at this address: camunda Services GmbH, Zossener Strasse 55-58, 10961 Berlin, Germany.

Principally you browse the pages of camunda anonymously, unless you register for any of the services offered by camunda. On top of registering for one of the services offered by camunda, data can be processed and used, that whilst not containing your name and personal information, can legally be classified as so-called pseudonymous data. This also applies to the analysis of the use of our site through technical means.

## 1. Log Files
If you access or use content from the sites you communicate via the internet with our servers. This results in so-called log files on our server. The recorded log files do not contain personal information, however do include the following data: Browser type / version of browser, operating system used, referrer URL and time of request. This data cannot be allocated to specific individuals. A compilation of the data with other data sources is not carried out. We merely use the log files in order to better analyze cases of disturbance in the availability of our server. The data is usually deleted after 24 hours.

## 2. Google Analytics
The websites use Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses "cookies", text files that are stored on your computer and allow an analysis of your use of the sites. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the sites is usually transmitted to a Google server in the USA and stored there. In the case of activation of the IP anonymization on this website, your IP address will be truncated within member states of the European Union or other parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area.

Only in exceptional cases is the complete IP address transmitted to a Google server in the USA and shortened there. On behalf of the operator of this website Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity and providing other services related to the use of the website and internet to the website operator. The as part of Google Analytics transmitted IP address is not associated with any other data held by Google.

You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser software. However, we point out that in this case you may not be able to fully utilize all the features of this website. You can prevent the data generation by the cookie regarding your use of websites (including your IP address) and the processing of this data by Google by downloading and installing the browser plugin available in the following link: http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout.

## 3. WireMinds
We use products of WiredMinds AG (www.wiredminds.de) for the purposes of marketing, market research and optimization of our services offered on the sites. These products collect and process your personal data and use it to create usage profiles under a pseudonym. These usage profiles are fully anonymized where possible and appropriate. We and WiredMinds employ cookies and/or web beacons (also known as tracking pixels) on the sites. We transfer the data we collect about you, which may also include personal data, to WiredMinds or WiredMinds gathers this data directly. WiredMinds is entitled to use information that you leave behind by visiting our websites to create anonymized usage profiles. The data collected shall not be used to personally identify visitors to this website without the express permission of the party affected and shall not be merged with personal data about the bearer of the pseudonym. Any IP addresses recorded are anonymized immediately by deleting the last number block. Permission to collect and store data in the future may be revoked at any time by clicking on the following link: Exclude from website tracking

## 4. Social Media Plugins
The sites use various social media plug-ins:

### 1) Google +1
Google + is a so-called social network provided by Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA.

The Google +1 button allows you to publish information worldwide in connection with Google +. Via the Google + 1 button you and other users receive personalized content from Google and our partners. Google will store both the information that you have given for a content +1, as well as information about the page that you viewed when you click on +1. Your +1's can be shown as a comment along with your name and profile photo in Google services, such as in search results or in your Google profile, or elsewhere on websites and ads on the Internet.

Google records information about your +1- activities to improve Google's services for you and others.

In order to use the Google +1 button, you need a worldwide visible public Google profile that must contain at least the chosen name for the profile. This name is used in all Google services. In some cases, this name can also substitute any other name that you used when sharing content under your Google Account. The identity of your Google profile may be shown to users who know your e-mail address, or have any other identifying information from you.

Use of collected information

In addition to the above uses, the information you provide will be used in accordance with Google privacy policy.

We may publish aggregated statistics about the +1-activities of the user or pass these statistics on to our users and partners, such as publishers, advertisers or linked websites. We can, for example, communicate the following to a publisher: "10 percent of users who have +1' d this page, are in New York."

Your Options

On the tab "+1" in your profile you will see a list of the contents, which you have given +1. You can remove content from the list.

You can disable +1-recommendations of people you know being shown to you on third-party websites. This also applies to advertisements on third-party websites.

Information, such as your last assigned +1 is stored locally in your browser. This information can be viewed and deleted in your browser settings.

### 2) Twitter
Twitter is a microblogging service of the American company Twitter, Inc. (795 Folsom St., Suite 600, San Francisco, CA 94107). When visiting a page that contains a Twitter button, characterized by the Twitter logo, a direct link from your browser with the Twitter servers may be set up and the button will be loaded from there. The information is transmitted to Twitter that the page was called. Even if you're not logged in, Twitter can collect and store user data.

If you click the Twitter-button and „tweet“ via the opening window (if possible), you will transmit the tweeted information to Twitter. This information is then posted to your Twitter user profile.

For more information on data collection, evaluation and processing of your information through Twitter and your rights related thereto, see the privacy statement of Twitter, which is available at http://twitter.com/privacy.

### 5. Newsletter
We also offer you the opportunity to keep up to date with camunda, pending meetings and developments in the BPM area via our newsletters. If you want to register for one of our newsletters, we need your e-mail address, which we will save as long as you want to receive the newsletter. You can unsubscribe from the newsletter at any time free of charge via the link provided in the newsletter.

## 6. Event Registration
If you want to register for one of our events, this will be shown publicly with your chosen user name.

## 7. Forum
If you post in a forum, this will be shown publicly with your chosen user name . Your submitted post can also be accessed together with the time of posting by anyone who is interested.

## 8. Disclosure to third parties
Apart from the cases mentioned above, we only pass on information from you to third parties

when and if this is necessary to carry out existing contractual relations with you or to enforce our rights and claims,
there are inquiries from regulatory bodies, especially law enforcement and regulatory authorities, and the disclosure is used for the prevention of threats to public safety and order and for the prosecution of criminal offenses and/or
we are otherwise required by law to do so.

## 9. Data security
camunda uses technical and organizational security measures to ensure that your personal data is protected from loss, incorrect changes or unauthorized access by third parties. In any case, only authorized persons form our side have access to your personal information, and only to the extent that it is required under the above purposes.

## 10. Right of information
Upon requirements made to us in written form we will give you information at any time detail-ing what personal data is stored by us in connection with camunda. You have the opportunity at any time to rectify or delete your personal data with us. In this case, please write to

camunda Services GmbH
Zossener Straße 55-58
10961 Berlin
or send an e-mail to info@camunda.com.

## 11. Right of revocation
You may at any time revoke your consent to the collection and storage of your personal data through camunda. If necessary, please write to

camunda Services GmbH 
Zossener Straße 55-58
10961 Berlin
or send an e-mail to info@camunda.com. Please understand that certain services can no longer be provided to you in the event of your revocation.

## 12. Deletion of data after revocation
If you revoke your consent according to the foregoing paragraph 11, the affected data will be deleted immediately, unless statutory or regulatory retention obligations preclude or we need the data to process any outstanding tasks, or to enforce our rights and claims.

## 13. Changes to this Privacy Statement
We reserve the right to update this privacy statement. In case of changes, we will inform you with reasonable notice of this and if necessary ask for the required consent.

Status: September 11, 2013